Changelog
=====

1.0.8 - upcoming
-----

* Fixed: Textpattern 4.7.x compatibility.

1.0.7 - 2017/03/15
-----

* Fixed: Textpattern 4.6.x compatibility.

1.0.6 - 2014/03/20
-----

* Changed: Includes the flat PHP source files rather than writing the contents to the database. The include paths are relative and expect that the `txpath` constant is same as the real install location. This lets bytecode caching system cache the source, rather than it being loaded by eval from the database.

1.0.5 - 2014/03/19
-----

* Added: Suppress ErrorExceptions during installation. Certain Textpattern versions and plugins may invoke notices and warnings.
* Added: Validate Textpattern database and connection using PDO.
* Added: Textpattern 4.4.1 compatibility.

1.0.4 - 2013/05/12
-----

* Fixed: Fixed translation installation. Default Textpack language wasn't installed when there was more than one language.
* Fixed: Plugin collections support plugin installer files with underscores in the plugin name.
* Changed: Manifest file's validation is more strict about the specified name. This lowers the change of collisions with similarly named files found in packages, and makes sure plugins properly follow Textpattern's plugin naming convention.
* Changed: Join source and help files with two linefeeds instead of just one.

1.0.3 - 2013/05/09
-----

* Changed: Suppresses any notices and warnings generated by plugins and their installers.
* Changed: Looks for default Textpattern installation location before searching. This saves resources and time spent in search, if Textpattern is found from the default location.

1.0.2 - 2013/05/07
-----

* Fixed: undefined variable notice that appears if the site is in debugging mode.

1.0.1 - 2013/05/05
-----

* Fixed: requirements.

1.0.0 - 2013/05/05
-----

* The first stable release.

h3. 1.0.0-alpha.6 - 2013/05/05

* Fixed: Package collection installer.

1.0.0-alpha.5 - 2013/05/04
-----

* Fixed: Plugin uninstaller. Now correctly uninstalls plugin and then deletes files, instead of trying to do it the other way around.
* Added: Textpattern version constraint. Makes sure the installer is only used on supported Textpattern versions.
* Changed: Renamed the Composer package from rah/textpattern-plugin-installer to [textpattern/installer](https://packagist.org/packages/textpattern/installer).

1.0.0-alpha.4 - 2013/05/01
-----

* Added: new type `textpattern-admin-theme`. Supports admin-side themes.

1.0.0-alpha.3 - 2013/04/30
-----

* Fixed: Check permissions before trying to read help file.
* Fixed: Only try to read contents of actual files when constructing help documentation.
* Fixed: Works with any path structures, containing any characters in filenames, multi-byte safe.
* Added: Strips surrounding whitespace from the imported PHP source code in addition to the closing tags.
* Changed: Searches Textpattern installation from the current and the child directories, but doesn't climb up. Otherwise it has the change of hooking to the wrong installation.

1.0.0-alpha.2 - 2013/04/29
-----

* Fixed: Installed packages don't incorrectly report them as modified. Didn't calculate MD5 checksums properly.
* Changed: Does Textpattern injecting in the package type handler itself.

1.0.0-alpha.1 - 2013/04/29
-----

* Fixed: errors.
* Added: new type `textpattern-plugin-package`.
* Added: Supports multiple plugins in one package.

1.0.0-alpha - 2013/04/28
-----

* The first alpha.
